> Hi Oey,
> How do you think yesterday went?

I think I understand what you're trying to do here. There are only two possible ways for me to interpret the situtation:

1. You must think that both Krissy and I are _fucking idiots_ OR
2. You yourself are such a _fucking idiot_ that you did stop for one second to even consider how _fucking irresponsible, dangerous, AND idiotic_ your actions were.

## Ripping a new one

Consider the following questions:

    > In the process of learning a backflip in a class setting, how many times should falling on your head be considered acceptable?

    > In the process of teaching a backflip, how many times should the student falling on their head be considered acceptable?

    > In the process of spotting a backflip, how many times should the student falling on their head be considered acceptable?

    > In the process of teaching a class to backflip, how many instances of students falling on their heads be considered acceptable?

If your answer is anything other than **zero** times, you need to have your head examined and your coaching credentials tossed into an active volcano because you are an active threat to the health, safety, and lives of those you are attempting to teach.

    Being able to backflip is not a meaningful prerequisite to teaching a student a backflip.

Let that sink into your pea brain. Now read it again.

     Being able to backflip is not a meaningful prerequisite to teaching a student a backflip

You probably won't have any interest in teaching a backflip if you can't do it, AND YET, I would NOT list being able to backflip (even exceptionally) as a meaningful credential to teaching a backflip

### Meaningful Prerequisites to Teaching a Backflip

1. Experience in understanding what potential _risks_ are present in learning to flip
   1. Nervous System: Neck/Spine/Nerve
      1. paralysis, death.
   1. Brain: Concussion
   1. Musculoskeletal:
      1. Ankle/Wrist/Elbow/Knee/shoulder
   1. Mental:
      1. Mental blocks happen **super quickly** if you badly bail a flip, and can set back the learning process 3-6 months.
1. Experience in understanding when the student is ready for any given step
   1. But **especially** when they are ready to flip for the **first time** and for the **first time alone**
1. Experience in understanding what the timeline for someone learning to flip on the floor
   1. 1 day, _if_
      1. the student is super athletic in the right ways, durable, and the right kind of stupid.
      1. if you think this is more than 1/10 high performing ATHLETES, you are going to get a lot of people hurt
   1. a few weeks of practice, visualization, and spotting _if_
      1. the student is athletic in the right ways, decently durable, and risk tolerant
      1. Most highly capable, risk tolerant athletes should not be fliping until the 3rd or 4th lesson without exetensive prior experience.
   1. 4-6 months of consistent practice drills, visualization, exercise, and spotting _if_
      1. the student is minorly lacking in one or two or of the following categories: athleticism, durability, risk tolerance; OR is a one day or few weeks type of student who lands on their head and gets a mental block
   1. 1 year of consistent practice drills, exercise, visualization, and spotting _if_
      1. the student is majorly lacking in one of the following categories or minorly lacking in many of the categories.
   1. If they could not make significant progress within 1 year of consistent work, either they really aren't cut out for it or the coach hasn't addressed one of the key components.
1. Experience in a methodology for critical elements of the skill
   1. jump/takeoff/set
   2. rotation as a concept
   3. the landing
   4. simulate putting it together
1. Experience in drills and cues for the above
1. Experience in spotting methodologies through several phases
   1. first flip
   1. 2nd-5th flip
   1. 5th - 20th flip
   1. for confidence
1. Experience in saving a student when a bail occurs
   1. when to cancel
   1. when to toss over
1. Experience in understanding the potential & the shortcomings of any given piece of gym equipments
   1. what are the pros and cons of mats, pits, trampolines, airtracks, blocks, spotting belts, etc
1. Caring about the health, safety, and lives of those you are teaching.

## and you

It would be gross negligence, if not far worse, to allow you to continue to "coach" students within our facility in any capacity in your current state, unsupervised.

## Letter to Oey

Hi Oey,

Hope you all had fun yesterday. I admire your ability to coordinate and motivate your crew into training. It looks like your heart is in the right place and I can empathize with that. It is with a heavy heart that I must terminate our agreement as it stands.

After quickly reviewing the footage, it's obvious that it would be gross negligence, if not malicious incompetence, to allow you to continue to coach students within our facility unsupervised.

Tricking itself is a sport that regularly comes under heavy scrutiny for its perceived lack of understanding when it comes to safety and sensible best practices in regards to progression.

The entire point of our facility is to change that perception. Axis 45 prides itself on being a training center for those who understand and harness the power of well thought out progression. I myself have coached trampoline and tumbling gymnastics at every level all the way through the national team, and in doing so, ingrained a strong understanding of the skill-building process.

With this understanding, we are able to teach tricking to a much broader, and older population than almost anywhere else in the US. In contrast to the "trial by fire" approach where only the most talented, durable, and frankly lucky individuals survive the brutal early stages of the sport, nearly anyone willing to learn is able to make stable meaningful progress towards their goals.

I cannot in good faith charge your people for the events of Sunday as I refuse to tarnish Axis 45's reputation by considering that business as usual.

More people have fallen on their heads this Sunday than in the entire history of our facility, and worse, at least 3 of them were _thrown_ to their doom.

If you do not see this as a devastating failure for someone acting in the role of coach, you cannot be helped. We will part ways and I will wish you well and pray for your students.

Again, it looks like your heart is in the right place so I will extend this opportunity in the case that you choose to see this as an exercise in growth mindset:

I advise you to invest in 4 weeks of our $30 Thursday Flipping Progressions Class for a better understanding of how to break down the skill, different ways to utilize the space, and insight as to when someone is ready for spotting, and especially when they are NOT ready.

If we are to resume hosting wushu practice at Axis 45, someone will be present to supervise the practice, and that will cost extra. If I am comforatble after the four weeks at flipping class and at least one supervised practice it may be _possible_ to reinstate our former agreement.

If that doesn't make sense for you at this time, I wish you and your students good health.

Sincerely,
Jared
